Hello, I am Danjie Tang. I am going to become a third year computer engineering student at university of toronto. I've been applying to a lot of job posts recently, and unfortunately there haven't been much replies. That being said, I did found an interesting research position with Professor Sanner for the summer. I initially thought that it would be some kind of really interesting machine learning project, however as it had turn out it is more of a software engineering project than a machine learning one. It is true that we have to use some machine learning knowledge, for example embedding. But for the most of the time it had been software engineering. Recently, I purchase a new laptop for the purpose of doing machine learning training. Thanks to its 4060 GPU, I can do machine learning with GPU with quite a big batch size. Last week had been an interesting week, I met up with my old friends from high school and played some really interesting card board games. But that's not it, after that, I met with some of my good old friends from first year university. Gosh, those were some good time. We went to KTV together. 
Yesterday, I came up with a brilliant idea for the research. We were looking at information retrieval for information systems with reviews for each item. Our current method is using late fusion to find the most relevant restaurant given its review information. Basically, we use some transformers to embed all the reviews for all the restaurants, and then we use the same embedding method to embed user input. Say for example, user asks for a restaurants that has air conditioning and free wifi. We are going to embed that, and find the similarity score between that query embedding and all the restaurant reviews. By similarity score, I meant dot product. Late fusion takes the top k most similar review for each restaurant and find the average of those similarity scores. The average is recorded down as the restaurant similarity score. We then take the top k restaurant similarity scores and find the most similar restaurants. The flaw of this method is that we are actually throwing away lots of useful information by only looking at the top k reviews to find restaurant similarity score. Instead, I proposed to use attention mechanism to find the attention score for each of the reviews and pass all the similarity for each restaurant through a softmax function. Using the output of the softmax function as attention score, we easily find the restaurant embedding by multiplying each review and its attention score. After that we can do another similarity test for all the restaurant embeddings and therefore find the most similar restaurant. From my current understanding of deep learning, I believe this method is worth a shot. My professor agreed that this is an interesting proposal. However, in his reply, he implied that we should be focusing on our current task at the hand instead of doing something new. Honestly, I might as well go and try out this new method on my own free time. 
I am creating my own data set of how I normally talk. I went to high school in Markham, a beautiful city to the north of Toronto. I spent 4 years in Markham, thinking back, I don't regret a single day I spent in that high school. I made some excellent friends there in Markham. However, I do have one tiny regret. I should've spend more time on programming back in highschool. 
Anyway, let's talk about my trip on deep learning. I have began learning deep learning in January 2023, however, I couldn't find where to learn. I was learning on Coursera, but the courses there were so short. They literally spent like 12 minutes on RNN, how is anyone suppose to learn? Fortunately, I know someone in upper grade that has the recording of APS360 from last year. So I learned CNN and basic feed forward neural networks on my own time. It was only until this summer, when I really started having time for myself and actually starting to make progress on deep learning. In fact, I am creating a dataset for my potential project to create a large language model that sounds exactly like me. But before that, I am going to create a Trump Tweet Identifier, that can basically identify whether a sentence is said by Trump or not. 
That's why I am typing these garbage notes down. Simply trying to create a dataset of how I normally speak. Gosh, I don't even know what to say now. 
My passport is expiring soon, so I went to the embassy yesterday. However, I was refused to enter because they close at 12 pm, that's noon. So I had to go again today. Today, when I arrived there. Turns out that they are not accepting any in person renewal of passport, because of the covid-19 pandemic. What a bunch of idiots. It's May 31, 2023. The world health organization had already declared the pandemic to be gone, yet they still force us to wear masks when inside. 
I really don't know what else can I talk about. Let's talk about airplanes. Back in high school, during a conversation with one of my friends, I realized that I have a strong passion towards aviation. Like I've always thought airplanes are so cool, but I've actually never had a deep thought about it. So, I download an airplane flight simulator called Infinite Flight. Looking back, the flight simulator is kinda bad in quality. But I fell in love with flying an aircraft after that. I used to play flight simulator every day. Gosh, those were the simple days. It was about sometime in the summer of 2020, when covid-19 was at its peak in terms of impact to our life. Schools were locked down and I had pretty much nothing to do all day along. Looking back, I wish I had spent more time on deep learning. But honestly, the time during lockdown and social distance contains most of my favourite memory from high school. So, I soon started watching youtube videos about it and learning about how many models there are. Right now, I can tell 80% of the time when I walk into an airport which airplane is which. I can't tell the sepecific details but I can which plane is which model from which generation most of the time. For example: I can tell a 737 Next generation and a 737 max. But I can't tell if it is a 737-800 or a 737-900. Of course, I can tell the difference between a 737 and 747 and so on. Because they are different models. 
I like to go to parks, they give me a sense of calmness and peace. Back in high school, I used to spend around half an hour in park every day. I am not joking when I say that my favouite place in the world is the park right next to where I used to live. I used to bring friends to there and we'll sit on a bench and just chat. Gosh, I miss those good old days. In universities you really don't get the chance to stop for a moment and take a deep breath. Of course the park in Markham is too far for me now. So instead, I like to go to Queens park. It is also a pretty big park but sometimes there's people smoking. Speaking of smoking, I hate people when they smoke on the street. Like why would you smoke near an intersection where there's a bunch of people right next to you! There's just too many people smoking in Toronto and I hate it. It is part of the reason why I prefer suburban than downtown. The other part is traffic. Anyway, back to the park. Queens park is an awesome park, I really enjoy it. But its just not as good as Swan Lake park in Markham. 
Oh right, did I mention that I have a cat. His name is little orange. 